# Abstract

*BioJulia: High performance bioinformatics tooling for the Julia language*

We present BioJulia, a core library of bioinformatics tools for the Julia language, which aims to provide a robust, high-perfomance foundation for bioinformatics and computational biology programming. We outline our motivation for the project, describe the principles that guide our development, and show our progress towards the initial release of BioJulia.

Julia is a young but fast-maturing language designed for technical computing. It provides the clarity of a high-level language while delivering outstanding performance. Many aspects of the language have been designed to support modern numerical and scientific computing, with parallelism, linear algebra, statistics and package management all built in to the language.

As the deluge of biological data continues to grow, and the pace of research continues to quicken, the ability of research developers to rapidly produce high-performance, scalable software will become crucial. Julia is well suited to this challenge, and we are developing BioJulia in order to bring this solution within reach of the bioinformatics community.

BioJulia, like Julia itself, has been designed from scratch. We have chosen best-of-breed data structures and algorithms to focus on performance. To ensure high code quality we have a strict review policy, requiring at least two positive peer code reviews before changes are merged. To help maintain high standards in the BioJulia community, we will have a package ecosystem with the same peer review rules.

We have currently implemented data structures and algorithms for efficiently representing and manipulating biological sequences, genomic ranges, and phylogenetic relationships.

# Details

To be submitted to BOSC 2015 as a lightning talk / poster.

Authors:

Daniel C Jones, Ben J Ward, Richard Smith-Unna
